.TH mackup 8 "Feb 2018" mackup "User Guide"
.SH NAME
mackup \- a utility for performing arbitrary backup processes in a standard manner
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mackup
.I dir
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR mackup (8)
allows an administrator to backups parts of a system (or systems) in a standard manner using multiple secondary utilities (such as
.BR tar (1)
or
.BR rsync (1)) 
simply by managing plaintext files. Modifying the contents of these files adjusts the behavior of the backup, reducing redundancy in scripting the backups by hand while allowing other programs to easily edit and maintain the contents of the files. Abrastracting the schedule of the backups from the backup utilties themselves also allows the adminstrator to change the backup utility, and automatically have the same backup schedule continue.
.P
If the current day is Monday, and the 
.IR dir /targets/mon
directory exists, then all the sources listed in 
.IR dir /targets/mon/control/sources
will be backed up individually into 
.IR dir /targets/mon/data
by the run script
.IR dir /targets/control/run.
.P
For example, if 
.IR dir /targets/mon/control/sources
contained /etc, then on Monday the /etc folder would be tar'd and stored in 
.IR dir /targets/mon/data/etc.tar.
.IR dir /targets/mon/data
is created automatically if it doesn't exist.
.P
Similarily, if it's the 3rd of the month, and
.IR dir /targets/3
exists, then all sources listed in
.IR dir /targets/3
will be tar'd. If both
.IR dir /targets/mon
and
.IR dir /targets/3
exist, both directories will be processed.
.P
Additionally,
.IR dir /targets/daily
is processed every day,
.IR dir /targets/monthly
is processed on the first day of the monthy, and
.IR dir /targets/annually
is processed on the first day of the year.
.P
While the
.I sources
file lists the locations that need to be backed up, the
.I run
file specifies the command that actually performs the backup. This file is actually a script that is called by mackup and is passed the source to be backed up. The script is executed with the working directory set to the target being processed.
.P
.B mackup
will produce output during it's run. The contents of this output is a mix of notice and error messages as well as the current file path being backed up. This output can be captured and sent to a log file with either the included logging utility
.BR macklog (8)
or with a third-party utility such as
.BR multilog (8)
by Dan Bernstein.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP dir
The directory that
.B mackup
should look in for configuration data.
.SH FILES
.IP sources
The list of locations to backup.
.IP run
The script that is executed to process the backup.
.SH AUTHOR
Matt Ferris <matt@bueller.ca>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR macklog (8)
.br
.I /usr/share/mackup/Readme.md
